---
layout: post
title:  "Release of v1.1"
date:   2019-02-14 08:00:00 -0600
categories: jekyll update
author: "Joseph D. Gleason & Abraham P. Vinod"
---

We've added a lot of new features to SReachTools over the past few months in
preparation for its public submission and debut at the 2019, International 
Conference on Hybrid Systems: Computation and Control, coming up this April.

The summary of all the features of SReachTools is available in [our
documentation webpage]({{ '/docs/#features-of-sreachtools' | relative link }}).

We summarize the major changes from v1 release.

## Feature updates
- `SReachSetLag` (Lagrangian-based approximation of stochastic reach set) has
  major updates, with the ability to handle arbitrary disturbances:
    - We can use [GeoCalcLib](https://github.com/worc4021/GeoCalcLib) --- a
      MATLAB interface to Avis's [LRS vertex-facet enumeration
      library](http://cgm.cs.mcgill.ca/~avis/C/lrs.html). This library serves as
      an alternative to MPT's preferred approach for vertex-facet enumeration,
      [CDD](https://www.inf.ethz.ch/personal/fukudak/cdd_home/index.html).
    - As an (partial) alternative to vertex-facet enumeration problems, we
      can, at the user's choice, utilize support functions to perform Lagrangian
      recursions. 
        - For `lag-under`, we provide a complexity-preserving recursion that
          requires vertex-facet enumeration to guarantee an underapproximation. 
        - For `lag-over`, we provide a recursion-free overapproximation using
          robust linear programming.
    - `SReachLagController` synthesizes a set-based feedback controller that
      achieves the desired probabilistic threshold.
- `SReachPoint` has a new method `voronoi-open` that provides a
  probabilistically enforced upper bound on overapproximation error of the
  maximal reach probability and an associated optimal open-loop controller.
- `SReachFwd` (forward stochastic reachability) can now perform analysis using
  Monte-Carlo simulation for arbitrary disturbances or use Fourier transforms
  (Kalman update) in case of Gaussian disturbances

## Auxillary updates

- Classes
    - `RandomVector`
        - Creation of non-Gaussian random vectors by specifying a generator for
          the same
        - `getRealization` generates realizations of the random vector.
        - `getProbPolyhedron` computes the probability of the random vectors
          lying in a user-specified polyhedron.
        - Affine transformation of random vectors and vertical concatentation of
          random vectors now permitted. Specifically, for a matrix $$F\in
          \mathbb{R}^{m\times n}$$, a deterministic vector $$v\in
          \mathbb{R}^m$$, and a $$n$$-dimensional RandomVector object $$w$$,
          `F * w + v` returns a $$m$$-dimensional RandomVector object.
          Similarly, `[rv1;rv2]` returns the vertical concatenation of two
          RandomVector objects `rv1` and `rv2`.
    - `SReachEllipsoid` (new class)
        - For appropriate $$c\in \mathbb{R}^n$$ and $$Q\in \mathbb{R}^{n\times
          n}$$, $$Q$$ positive definite, define an ellipsoid $$S = \{ x \in
          \mathbb{R}^{n} : (x - c)^\top Q^{-1} (x - c) \leq 1 \}$$. If $$Q$$ is
          positive definite, then a lower dimensional ellipsoid is defined.
        - `S.support(v)` implements a vectorized CVX friendly support
          function of the ellipsoid in the direction $$v$$
        - `S.contains(v)` checks if $$ v\in S$$
        - For appropriate $$F\in \mathbb{R}^{m\times n}$$ and $$v\in
          \mathbb{R}^{m}$$, $$F S + v$$ returns an ellipsoid.
    - `SReachLagController` (new class)
        - Computes an admissible state-feedback controller that achieves the
          specified probabilistic threshold using the Lagrangian-based
          underapproximation of the stochastic reach set. See
          [examples/dubinsSReachSetGauss.m]({{ '/examples/publish/dubinsSReachSetGauss.html' | relative link}}) 
          for its use in an example.
        - `helperFunctions/generateMonteCarloSims` can use `SReachLagController`
          objects to generate realizations of the closed-loop system.
- Helper functions
    - `spreadPointsOnUnitSphere` computes a collection of "well-separated" unit
      vectors in $$\mathbb{R}^n$$ using difference-of-convex programming.
    - `getBsetWithProb` provides a wrapper around
      `RandomVector/getProbPolyhedron` to compute the scaling required such that
      a random vector lies in a polytope with a desired probability
    - `polytopesFromMonteCarloSims` provides convex hulls of a subset of
      trajectories (potentially from a Monte-Carlo simulation)
